---
slug: morning-thoughts-250101
publishedAt: 2025-01-01T06:08:50+0800
title: "Morning Thoughts"
abstract: "Random thoughts about society, money, and education."
category: "Thought"
tags: ["Thought", "Society", "Money", "Education"]
hero:
    image: /blog/random-thoughts.webp
---


## Morning Thought 1

Money and power are two sides of the same coin.

In today’s world, money is the perfect tool for those who want to exert power (control) over others.

From there to say that modern money was created for this purpose…

So OK, it’s possible to have a properly functioning, healthy society with money.

That said, it doesn’t change my position on the “money concept” (putting a value on each individual thing and keeping apothecary accounts between individuals).
In my opinion, it’s a primitive concept and now, it has become obsolete.

Money emerged from scarcity, from the fear of running out; hence the desire to exchange. Today, we are capable of creating a world of abundance, for everyone. So if we change this basic perception, the context changes radically and a new system emerges naturally. A system emerging from a world of abundance.

And from a purely practical point of view, money is a pain in the ass, creating a huge workload, many problems. I’ll leave you to think about all the things it entails: setting and negotiating prices, currency conversions, bank accounts, the stock market, cryptos, the banking system, security systems, alarms, safes, locks, accounting, accounting softwares, budgeting, taxes, cashiers, cash registers, queues, wallets, bills, cash transportation…

Can you imagine how many human hours and natural resources this “money concept” consumes? What else could we do with all that? At the present time, is it really worth it? 🤔 In fact, everyone who wants to do something for the climate should sign up to this! This is THE solution to drastically reduce our carbon footprint! 😂 And here’s one more negative point on the back of money; it’s the cause of climate problems!!! 😂 Just kidding… but isn’t there some truth to it? 🤔


## Morning Thought 2

Education reform.

If children, all children, were taught from an early age how to understand their emotions, and to manage them. Understand that others function in the same way, teaching empathy. Learning the art of communication, to make oneself understood but also understand, by knowing how to listen (and let the other person speak). Learn the art of negotiation too, but not the manipulative one, the benevolent one; towards oneself and towards the other; making compromises, finding solutions.

Imagine a world full of people with this kind of upbringing. Wouldn’t human relationships naturally improve?

What if society made sure that everyone could develop their potential, follow their passion; starting by exploring different fields. By providing everything they need to do so, unconditionally. Wouldn’t that make people happier? And certainly less stressed. Wouldn’t human relations naturally improve?

If we take money out of the equation, all this becomes possible. Deadlines disappear, and so does the stress that goes with them. Everyone can have “everything” (between “), at any time. Or if something isn’t available, there are so many other things available; knowing how to manage your emotions, no bratty whims. No more stress, just the joy of being able to do what’s important to you. Wouldn’t human relationships naturally improve?

When people follow their joy, their passion, don’t they naturally perform better, producing better results? Isn’t it obvious that it’s to society’s advantage to provide everyone with what they need to be able to put all their natural talents at the service of others, and therefore of society itself?

Because, I’m convinced, our natural talents automatically lead us to be at the service of others… and not in the sense of a servant-slave, in the sense of sharing from the bottom of our heart, of the pleasure of offering our talents to others… not to get something in return, simply by the gesture, by the appreciation of doing; and secondarily to know that it helps or pleases those who receive what we give.

Is this possible in today’s society? Is it possible to do this within the framework imposed by the “money concept?” Is it possible to do this while bean-counting with each other?
