---
slug: unity-playgrounds-pitch
publishedAt: 2026-06-24T15:30:35+0100
title: "Unity Playgrounds – Pitch"
subtitle: "A quick introduction to what this project is"
abstract: "A swarm of living labs designed to dissolve conditioning. Playgrounds for adults “un poco loco in their head”, for makers of all trades overflowing with imagination."
category: "Unity Playgrounds"
tags: ["Unity Playgrounds", "Unity Initiatives", "Storytelling"]
hero:
    image: /blog/unity-playgrounds-vision-the-seed-preview.webp
---


Unity Playgrounds is a swarm of experiment centers for Reconditioning & Innovation.

**Guiding Principle: If we wanted to start all over from scratch, given the current state of our knowledge and technologies, what would an intelligent civilization do?**  
☝️ _This is related to the long-term [Eutopia thought experiment](what-would-an-intelligent-civilization-do)._

Each Unity Playground is…

A **coworking space** bringing **all types of shared spaces in one place** to live, work, meet, socialize, collaborate, exchange ideas, and share knowledge.

A kinder **playground for adults “un poco loco in their head”**, for **makers of all trades**, for **multipotential/interdisciplinary** people overflowing with imagination.

A **living lab for dissolving conditioning** and discovering more of your true nature… then **experimenting what a society based on unity consciousness could be**.

Its culture promotes curiosity, creativity, newness, innovation, make things differently, etc. It encourages you to take things not too seriously and **follow your Joy**; to approach what you do with playfulness and humor… even with some craziness. **Boring is proscribed, forbid as harmful!**

Members are passionate and love excellence – doing things the way they must be done, striving for perfection. They share the same desire to brainstorm, experiment, design, prototype, and build. They are keen to learn, teach, collaborate, and help. **They work on interesting unusual projects that shake the status quo.**

**VALUES:**

- We are all different… that’s precisely why: _“Unity Makes Strength”_ — Motto of Belgium
- _“I am because we are.”_ — Ubuntu Philosophy
- _“Strong people don’t put others down… They lift them up.”_ ― Michael P. Watson
- _“We cannot solve problems by using the same kind of thinking we used when we created them.”_ — Albert Einstein
- _“’Good enough’ is the enemy of humanity.”_ — Mike Lazaridis (in BlackBerry)
