---
slug: unity-makes-strength-we-are-one-light-love
publishedAt: 2024-12-29T10:25:14+0800
title: "Unity Makes Strength. We are One. Light, Love."
category: "Thought"
tags: ["Thought", "Unity Makes Strength", "Humanity"]
hero:
    image: /blog/unity-makes-strength-we-are-one-light-love.webp
    caption: Source
    captionUrl: https://focalpointministries.org/devotional/let-there-be-light/
---


Individually, we’re all on an evolutionary path. Our guidance system is our passion. When we follow our joy, we evolve personally.  
Collectively, it’s the same, but together.  
When we share our passion, when we let our light shine, we inspire others in their evolution. _(note to self 😉)_

In an open space, light spreads quickly, everywhere.  
When we deliberately limit it with corridors and doors, its power is restricted, even blocked. And that takes energy to set up, both on the part of those who close the doors and those who want to open them.

These corridors and doors are the infernal trio: money, laws, administration. But also division, competition… reinforced, even initiated by this infernal trio? Therefore, also our reluctance, the conditions we impose on each other, and on ourselves.

Let there be light, unconditionally!

Can you imagine that? Sharing with others without conditions… and then receiving from others without conditions? Following what you’re passionate about, unconditionally? Scary, isn’t it?

Do you think the world “works” thanks to the infernal trio invented by human beings? Or could it be that nature, life, with all its millennia of wisdom, has invented a far more efficient, far more rewarding mechanism? Something innate that we all possess deep inside, in our guts, in our hearts. Something that resonates with you right now?

Have you ever used your left hand to pass a glass of water to your right? All the cells in your hand and arm mobilized, working together towards a common goal coming from “above". The right hand was then mobilized to drink that glass of water, resulting in a benefit for the whole body, for all its cells.

Do you think the body would function as well if the left hand set a condition before passing the glass? Forcing the right hand to condition the nose before blowing it. Not being able to fulfill this condition, the nose remains blocked. Thus depriving the whole body of the oxygen supply it needs.

What happens when individual cells decide they no longer want to participate in the whole, or work together towards the common goal?

Humanity is currently a sick body! Or rather, asleep. Some cells just need a wake-up call.  
What does this make you feel deep inside?
